# Description
Omnios r151046, kernel SunOS Omnios 5.11 has a denial of service vulnerability. For the processing of TCP SYN packets, Omnios has a wide acceptable range of sequence numbers. It does not require the sequence number to exactly match the next expected sequence value, just to be within the current receive window, which violates RFC5961. This flaw allows attackers to send multiple random TCP SYN packets to hit the acceptable range of sequence numbers, thereby interrupting normal connections and causing a denial of service attack.

# Reproduction
## Environment
* Test machine - virtual machine 1: The system is not limited, such as Ubuntu system. Python, scapy, pcapy, impacket environments are installed. IP1: 192.168.56.104 
* Target system - virtual machine 2: OmniOS operating system. GCC runtime environment is installed. IP2: 192.168.56.112 
* The two virtual machines can communicate over the network.

## Experiment Overview
Virtual machine 1 sends a packet or system call to virtual machine 2 of the omnios system. The sending sequence is CONNECT, SYN+ACK(V, V), PUSH+ACK(V, V), SYN(INV, 0) and PUSH+ACK(V, V). The response of virtual machine 2 after receiving SYN(INV, 0) packet is mainly observed. If the connection is interrupted after receiving SYN(INV, 0) packet, there is a vulnerability. 
* Note1: CONNECT means notifying virtual machine 2 to system call connect as a client and send a new SYN packet. The remaining SYN+ACK(V, V), PUSH+ACK(V, V), SYN(INV, 0) and PUSH+ACK(V, V) represent TCP packets of different flags. The first bit in the bracket represents the sequence number, and the second bit represents the acknowledgment number. Each bit is divided into two categories: V and INV. V means valid - this value is equal to the expected exact value of normal communication, and INV means invalid - this value does not exactly match the expected exact value and is within the receiving window range.In particular, 0 means - the value is 0.
* Note2: The sending of SYN(INV, 0) refers to sending multiple SYN packets with different sequence numbers, where the sequence number value is a random initial value within 0 - receive windows, and  all window intervals of entire sequence number space are traversed with receive window as the incremental interval, so as to ensure that a RST packet can hit the expected receive window range.

## Files Preparation
* File [poc.py](https://github.com/zq-star/TCP-Vuln-Report/blob/master/Omnios-r151046-5.11/tcp-syn/poc.py): Located in test machine - virtual machine 1 environment. Poc is responsible for sending corresponding data packets according to specified order. 
* File [socketAdapter.c](https://github.com/zq-star/TCP-Vuln-Report/blob/master/Omnios-r151046-5.11/SutAdapter/socketAdapter.c)[^socketAdapterCode]: Located in target system - virtual machine 2 environment. System call may be required in the implementation of TCP. The socketAdapter.c file is mainly responsible for identifying received commands and making system calls according to commands. For example: if “connect” is received, virtual machine 2 will initiate a connection as a client. In addition, socketAdapter.c will generate new port value of actual communication process and pass it to the test end-virtual machine 1, which will be used as the communication port of target system end.

## Reproduction steps
1. In target system - virtual machine 2:
   * Run `gcc -Wall -pthread -o socketAdapter.o socketAdapter.c -lnsl -lsocket`. Compile socketAdapter.c and generate the socketAdapter.o executable file. 
   * Run `sudo nice -19 ./socketAdapter.o -a 192.168.56.104 -l 5000 -p 20000`. Make target system in state of listening to commands.
2. In test machine - virtual machine 1:
   * Run `sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags RST RST -j DROP`. This step is to avoid interference caused by automatic packet sending by system kernel of virtual machine 1.
   * Run `sudo python poc.py`. The [poc.py](https://github.com/zq-star/TCP-Vuln-Report/blob/master/Omnios-r151046-5.11/tcp-syn/poc.py) sends packets of specified types in order: CONNECT, SYN+ACK(V, V), PUSH+ACK(V, V), SYN(INV, 0), and PUSH+ACK(V, V).
3. Capture packets to observe responses of omnios system - virtual machine 2 during running [poc.py](https://github.com/zq-star/TCP-Vuln-Report/blob/master/Omnios-r151046-5.11/tcp-syn/poc.py):
   * First, a socket connection is automatically established to pass command, and virtual machine 2 transmits actual communication port of local end，which is used for the following communication test of packets in order.
   * Virtual machine 1 sends CONNECT and SYN+ACK(V, V), virtual machine 2 responds with SYN and ACK respectively. At this time, TCP has established a connection.
   * Virtual machine 1 continues to send PUSH+ACK(V, V) with a 1-byte payload. Virtual machine 2 responds with a valid ACK, indicating that data can be transmitted normally.
   * Virtual machine 1 sends multiple SYN packets with different sequence numbers.Generate an initial sequence number within 0 - current receive window value, and increment by the window value to traverse all window intervals in entire sequence number space. The window size tested is 65392. Virtual machine 2 responds with RST+ACK, indicating that communication is interrupted.
   * Virtual machine 1 continues to send PUSH+ACK(V, V) for normal communication. Virtual machine 2 responds with RST, again indicating that communication has been interrupted, causing a denial of service attack.
  
[^socketAdapterCode]: Minor changes based on work of [ Fiterău-Broştean, Paul, Ramon Janssen, and Frits Vaandrager. "Combining model learning and model checking to analyze TCP implementations." Computer Aided Verification: 28th International Conference, CAV 2016, Toronto, ON, Canada, July 17-23, 2016, Proceedings, Part II 28. Springer International Publishing, 2016. ]
